
			AUTHENTICATION SERVICE

This directory contains all the ".c" files needed to build both a central
authentication server (cas) and a local authentication server (las).  The ".h"
files neeeded to build the servers are contained either in this directory or
in the secure Mach include directory (currently "../sminclude").  The test
program astest requires some files from the  "as" directory as well.

Both the local and central server's main programs ("las_main.c" and
"cas_main.c") can be compiled (depending on the value of AS_SM_INIT) to
obtain their initial connections either via the secure Mach initialisation
program "sm_init" or from the insecure Mach netmsgserver.  The makefile
"Makefile.sm" can be used to build the secure Mach version;  "Makefile"
can be used to build the version that relies on the netmsgserver.

One host in the distributed system should be running the central
authentication server;  other hosts should run the local authentication
server.  The central server should really be replicated for availability but
this isn't implemented yet.

A general description of the authentication service can be found in
"auth.{tex,dvi,PS}".  Manual entries for the authentication service
functions can found in the man sub-directory.


			UTILITY PROGRAMS

Also to be found in this directory are the programs "encrypt_db" and
"astest".

Encrypt_db allows a system administrator to construct a database that
contains unencrypted passwords and turn it into a database that contains
encrypted passwords.  The encryption algorithm is a reasonable hack but
should be improved.  By default, the central authentication server reads in
an authentication database from the file "ASDATABASE" when it starts up.

Astest allows the functions of the authentication server to be exercised.
As with the authentication servers themselves, astest can be configured
(depending on the value of SM_INIT) to obtain its ports to the security
servers either through the secure Mach initialisation environment of via the
insecure name service provided by the Mach netmsgserver.
